IN TRODUCTION . 91

crossed from Belgium for the sake of war and booty, and re-
tained‚ after settling in the country, the names of their mother
states. The population is dense, and their buildings, in the
main like those of Gaul, are numerous. They possess much
cattle. For money, they use brass or iron blocks of ascertained
weight. Tin is found in abundance in the midland districts ; in
those near the sea iron is obtained, but only in small quantities.
Brass they procure from abroad. There is timber of all kinds,
except beech and fir. Hares, hens, and geese they scruple to
eat, but they breed them for amusement and pastime. The
climate is milder than in Gaul, the frosts being less intense.
The island is triangular in shape, one side lying opposite to
Gaul. Of this side, one angle in Kent, where the Gallie ships
generally touch, faces the East‚ the lower one the South; the
whole length being about 500 miles. Another side inclines
towards Spain and the West. On this side lies Ireland, sup-
posed to be less than half the size of Britain3 but about as far
from that island as that island itself is from Gaul. Midway in
this passage is Mona. . . sThe hights are shorter than on the
Continent. The length of the second side is '700 miles. The
third side faces the North, having no land opposite to it. The
angle of this side is in the direction of Germany. Its length is
computed at about 800 miles. Thus the island is 2000 miles
round. The inhabitants of Kent are the most civilized, and
nearly resemble the Gauls 111 their customS. Few of the people
of the interior sow corn3 they live on milk and flesh, and dress
in skins. All the Britons stain themselves blue with woad‚ thus
presenting a horrifying aspect in battle. They wear their hair
long. They shave the whole body except the head and upper
lip- Parties of ten and twelve have wives in common; the
children are considered to belong to those to whom the women
were first wedded.

POMPONIUS MELA.
(Book ΙΙΙ., c. 6.)

Before long, fuller and more authentic accounts of Britain and
its inhabitants will be given to the public3 for Claudius is
opening to us an island that has so long been closed against us.

